README.md, before:

# Hexter #
A minimal terminal hex viewer supporting big files and offsets.

Compilable under Linux and Windows.  

## Version ##
1.4.2  
Last changed: 2019.06.24

## REQUIREMENTS ##
- A decent c compiler (gcc, msbuild) is required.  
- Building with cmake obviously requires cmake.  

## BUILD ##

### Building with cmake (Cross OS) ###
Using a build directory for a clean layout:

```bash
$ mkdir build
$ cd build
$ cmake .. -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
$ cmake --build . [--config Release] --target hexter
```
"--config Release" (without the enclosing "[]") is needed just for Windows to build in Release mode. It seems not to bother the Linux build if left there.  
"-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release" on the other hand is only meaningful to Linux.  
"Release" will build with -Ofast.  

### MSBUILD & Windows commandline ###
Use cmake for creating .vcxproj without Visual Studio:
```bash
$ cmake . -G "Visual Studio 14 2015 Win64"  
$ msbuild (/p:PlatformToolset=v140) (/p:Platform=x64) (/p:Configuration=Release) hexter.vcxproj
```
The "p" options are more or less mandatory and used without the enclosing "()".  

## USAGE ##
```bash
$ ./hexter a/file/name [options]
$ ./hexter [options] a/file/name
```
Optional Parameters:
 * -s:uint64_t Start offset in hex or dec. Default = 0x00.
 * -l:uint64_t Length of the part to display in hex or dec. Default = 0x50.
 * -a ASCII only print.
 * -x HEX only print.
 * -p For a plain, not styled text output. 
 * -ix Insert hex byte sequence (destructive!). Where x is an format option.
 * -ox Overwrite hex byte sequence (destructive!). Where x is an format option.
 * -fx Find hex byte sequence. Where x is an format option.
 * Format options: 
   * h: plain bytes, 
   * a: ascii text, 
   * b: byte, 
   * w: word, 
   * d: double word, 
   * q: quad word.  
   Expect for the ascii string, all values have to be passed as hex values.
 * -d Delete -l bytes from offset -s.
 * -b Force breaking, not continuous mode and print just one block.
 * -h Print this.

The program runs in continuous mode by default, expect for the -i, -o and -d option, or if the -b option is set.
Step through the file by pressing ENTER.
Quit with "q" or any other key.

Examples:  
Print 100 bytes from offset 20 in hex only style.
```bash
$ ./hexter a/file/name -s 20 -l 100 -x
```

Insert bytes at offset 0x20 with 0xdead0bea
```bash
$ ./hexter a/file/name -s 0x20 -ih dead0bea
```

Overwrite dword at offset 0x20 with 0xdead0bea
```bash
$ ./hexter a/file/name -s 0x20 -od dead0bea
```

Find ascii string "PE"
```bash
$ ./hexter a/file/name -fa PE
```

Delete 16 bytes from offset 16
```bash
$ ./hexter a/file/name -d -s 16 -l 16
```

## TESTS ##
### REQUIREMENTS ###
 - The google c++ testing framework gtest [1]  
 - A c++ compiler available to cmake

The test may be built with the target_name=hexter_tests which is the name of the test program as well.


[1] https://github.com/google/googletest


## CREDITS & CONTACT ## 
#### Author ####
- Henning Braun ([henning.braun@fkie.fraunhofer.de](henning.braun@fkie.fraunhofer.de)) 

#### Co-Author ####
common_codeio.h
- Viviane Zwanger ([viviane.zwanger@fkie.fraunhofer.de](viviane.zwanger@fkie.fraunhofer.de))

Commit message:

Implemented continuous finding/searching. Refactoring.

README.md, after:

# Hexter #
A minimal terminal hex viewer supporting big files and offsets.

Compilable under Linux and Windows.  

## Version ##
1.4.4  
Last changed: 2019.07.03

## REQUIREMENTS ##
- A decent c compiler (gcc, msbuild) is required.  
- Building with cmake obviously requires cmake.  

## BUILD ##

### Building with cmake (Cross OS) ###
Using a build directory for a clean layout:

```bash
$ mkdir build
$ cd build
$ cmake .. -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
$ cmake --build . [--config Release] --target hexter
```
"--config Release" (without the enclosing "[]") is needed just for Windows to build in Release mode. It seems not to bother the Linux build if left there.  
"-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release" on the other hand is only meaningful to Linux.  
"Release" will build with -Ofast.  

### MSBUILD & Windows commandline ###
Use cmake for creating .vcxproj without Visual Studio:
```bash
$ cmake . -G "Visual Studio 14 2015 Win64"  
$ msbuild (/p:PlatformToolset=v140) (/p:Platform=x64) (/p:Configuration=Release) hexter.vcxproj
```
The "p" options are more or less mandatory and used without the enclosing "()".  

## USAGE ##
```bash
$ ./hexter a/file/name [options]
$ ./hexter [options] a/file/name
```
Optional Parameters:
 * -s:uint64_t Start offset in hex or dec. Default = 0x00.
 * -l:uint64_t Length of the part to display in hex or dec. Default = 0x50.
 * -a ASCII only print.
 * -x HEX only print.
 * -p For a plain, not styled text output. 
 * -ix Insert hex byte sequence (destructive!). Where x is an format option.
 * -ox Overwrite hex byte sequence (destructive!). Where x is an format option.
 * -fx Find hex byte sequence. Where x is an format option.
 * Format options: 
   * h: plain bytes, 
   * a: ascii text, 
   * b: byte, 
   * w: word, 
   * d: double word, 
   * q: quad word.  
   Expect for the ascii string, all values have to be passed as hex values.
 * -d Delete -l bytes from offset -s.
 * -b Force breaking, not continuous mode and print just one block.
 * -h Print this.

The program runs in continuous mode by default, expect for the -i, -o and -d option, or if the -b option is set.  
Step through the file by pressing ENTER.  
Quit with "q".  
If searching something in continuous mode, type "n" to find next occurrence.

Examples:  
Print 100 bytes from offset 20 in hex only style.
```bash
$ ./hexter a/file/name -s 20 -l 100 -x
```

Insert bytes at offset 0x20 with 0xdead0bea
```bash
$ ./hexter a/file/name -s 0x20 -ih dead0bea
```

Overwrite dword at offset 0x20 with 0xdead0bea
```bash
$ ./hexter a/file/name -s 0x20 -od dead0bea
```

Find ascii string "PE"
```bash
$ ./hexter a/file/name -fa PE
```

Delete 16 bytes from offset 16
```bash
$ ./hexter a/file/name -d -s 16 -l 16
```

## TESTS ##
### REQUIREMENTS ###
 - The google c++ testing framework gtest [1]  
 - A c++ compiler available to cmake

The test may be built with the target_name=hexter_tests which is the name of the test program as well.


[1] https://github.com/google/googletest


## CREDITS & CONTACT ## 
#### Author ####
- Henning Braun ([henning.braun@fkie.fraunhofer.de](henning.braun@fkie.fraunhofer.de)) 

#### Co-Author ####
common_codeio.h
- Viviane Zwanger ([viviane.zwanger@fkie.fraunhofer.de](viviane.zwanger@fkie.fraunhofer.de))
